I'm Brett Halle.
I'm the Director of
Pro Video Engineering.
We're going to spend a few minutes
this afternoon and talk about how
you're going to be extending the
Pro applications with plug-ins.
This is going to be a
pretty busy session.
We've got a lot of different
plug-ins we want to cover,
so we'll get right to it.
Very quickly,
just so you have a bit of a context,
we have a number of applications
in our application suite
or Pro application suite.
Final Cut 4, which is a whopping, gee,
I think it's almost two weeks old,
launched a week ago last Saturday.
And Shake 3, which launched last weekend.
Final Cut Express,
which came out earlier this year.
And Logic, which is an acquisition
that we did last year.
We're going to cover a number of
different plug-in models that are
supported by all these applications.
And to kick us off and to
talk about audio units,
I'd like to invite Roger Powell,
the Lead Engineer for Final Cut Audio.
Thanks very much for coming today.
We're going to start off this
session by talking about audio units
and how they're deployed in these
three Apple Pro Media applications:
Final Cut Pro, Soundtrack, and Logic.
We're not going to teach you how
to write an audio unit today.
For that,
you should go to the developer site,
developer.apple.com/audio,
if you're new to this technology.
Each of these applications has
individual usage scenarios and
requirements for audio units,
and we thought it would be beneficial
to you if we could go over those
points so that you could effectively
deploy your audio units in any
or all of these applications.
These points that we're going to cover
fall into three general categories.
The first is the user interface,
the parameter user
interface that's supported,
either custom or generic.
The second is the input and output
channel configurations that your
plug-in should support in order
to work in these applications.
And then there are some issues with
audio unit property implementations.
Let's start off with Final Cut Pro.
[Transcript missing]
This, you can see on the left,
we have the controls that we've
generated by reading your parameters.
And then on the right is the,
what we call the keyframe interface.
And these keyframes can
be produced either through
recording gestures while you,
during playback while you're
using these controls on the left,
or they can be edited manually with
the standard editing procedures.
I'll go back for a second.
For channel configurations
in Final Cut Pro,
at this time,
because of our clip-based and
track bussing architecture,
we support mono-in and mono-out.
You can think of this more or less as
an insert/effect type of model rather
than as a send/return type of model.
It's okay if you support other
configurations in your plug-in,
but they must support Mono In and
Mono Out in order for them to
be loaded into Final Cut Pro.
At this time, we're not supporting the
Audio Unit Preset mechanism.
However, users can make changes to the
plug-in and then save a version of
that using our Favorites mechanism.
Let's move ahead to another
important item for Final Cut Pro.
This is an audio unit
property called Tail Time,
and it's very important to Final Cut Pro.
We sort of expect that you're
going to implement this or at least
understand the issues surrounding it.
Tail Time can be thought of
as the decay of a plug-in.
A good example would be a reverb.
A reverb, obviously,
you're going to set to, you know,
a two-second decay,
and so when a signal hits it,
it's going to decay out
for about two seconds.
This actually indicates the length of
the sample history to reach steady state.
This is how we interpret this.
We use this for a pre-roll computation
so that we can maintain sample
accurate seeming across edits.
The example of this, again,
is the reverb.
If we place the reverb on
a clip in the timeline,
and then we render the
first half of that clip,
we then go back and
start playing that clip.
The first half of the clip
will play from the render file,
which has the computed reverb effect,
and then suddenly when
we hit the crossover,
normally we would start feeding
source samples again to the reverb.
Well,
the reverb has to get primed up again,
so this would produce an
inconsistent sample stream
across that crossover point.
In order to avoid this,
we query the tail time property,
see how many samples we have to
pre-compute to reach a steady
state point at the crossover,
and then when you play back,
we've pre-computed that,
and then we start up with the samples
that are current at the crossover point.
So this essentially eliminates
the seeming artifacts.
We do expect this to be
implemented; however,
there are cases where you should
actually report not implemented.
One example of this would be if you
have an infinite tail time on a reverb,
which would last forever.
Clearly, at that point,
we'll have to render the entire
clip in order to do that,
because we can't pre-roll forever.
Or if the state can be indeterminate,
and this is a little interesting,
but an indeterminate plug-in would
be something like where there was an
internal modulation from a low frequency
oscillator that was not synchronous.
Or if there's some other random
element in the plug-in which would
cause its state to be indeterminate
at a given sample position.
These types of plug-ins
should report not implemented,
and there's some gory details associated
with how you actually handle that,
which I won't go into right now.
But we do have experts from all
of the applications up here,
so you can grab one of us later,
and we can give you more detail on that.
Also, the latency property,
which is somewhat similar in usage.
If your plug-in has a latency,
that is a delay between when the input
goes into it before samples come out.
We need to know that as well in order
to produce sample-accurate seaming.
That's it for Final Cut Pro.
Let's go on to Soundtrack.
Once again, Soundtrack,
and this is a theme that you'll
hear throughout all of this,
we want you to produce complete and
accurate parameter descriptions,
type and range.
This is so that automation
can be handled accurately.
Soundtrack actually supports the
Audio Unit custom UI and presets,
and in order to do that,
you would click on the
Advanced button in the Effect panel.
I have a screenshot of that as well.
On the left, you'll see the generic
view for the preset,
or for the plug-in,
and you can see the controls
listed and the generic controls,
the names and the controls listed there.
If you hit the Advanced button,
you'll get a screen like
what's on the right there,
where it gets overlaid with the custom
UI that's been embedded in the plug-in.
Channel configurations for Soundtrack
is stereo in and stereo out only.
Again, you can put other channel
configurations in your plug-in,
but they must support stereo in,
stereo out in order to be
used within Soundtrack.
Soundtrack also uses
the tail time property.
It uses it in a little bit different way.
It's only required for audio units
that would have an audible tail,
again, something like a reverb.
And the property value must be
accurate to avoid artifacts.
Otherwise,
there will be some truncation of output.
The way this is used is if you have a
reverb on a clip and that clip is the,
that track ends and you don't
want the reverb to cut off when
the source signal cuts off.
So Soundtrack will query that property
and allow playback to continue
for the length of time required
to process all of the effect samples.
Let's move on to Logic.
In Logic, the reference hosts are
Logic Platinum 5.5.1 or higher and
Logic Platinum 6.0.1 or higher.
This is where the
Audio Unit Support was first introduced.
You should put your resource allocations
into the initialization part of the
plug-in rather than the instantiation.
This is because Logic will instantiate
one copy of each plug-in on startup,
and so you don't want to
incur startup penalties.
The custom UI is supported,
and the generic parameter
UI is also supported.
Parameter descriptions must
be complete and accurate.
We'll take a quick look at
the Logic Audio Unit views.
The generic views are on
the left and the top right,
and the custom UI is
displayed in the bottom right.
For Logic,
the channel configurations that
are supported are mono to mono,
mono to stereo,
and stereo to stereo audio
channel configurations.
So this is a little more
flexible than the other two.
Each of these applications has a
different purpose in life and has
different support for these things.
There are a couple of
other points for Logic.
Logic will use the standard .au
preset for saving and loading presets.
It also pays attention to the
latency and tail time properties.
And then the last two points
are regarding automation.
Your plug-in should send the
Audio Unit Carbon View Event parameters
or messages,
mouse down and up in control,
to the host.
The reason for this is mostly
to support automation recording
for latch mode in automation.
And likewise, for automation support,
your plug-in should use the
Parameter Listener Scheme to inform
the host of parameter changes.
That basically covers the
points that we wanted to make
for these three applications.
We know it's probably generated some
questions and will all be available
for QA at the end of the session.
At this point,
I would like to hand things
over to Angus Taggart.
He's from Shake,
and he's going to talk about
Shake plug-in development.
Thank you, Roger.
Thanks again for joining
us this afternoon.
As Roger said, I'm going to be presenting
an introduction to the
Shake plug-in architecture.
Our goal is to cover some brief
introduction to Shake itself,
try to give you a feeling for
what the application does.
We're also going to cover what you
get with the Shake SDK and also
look at some basic concepts that are
involved with building a Shake plug-in.
So let's start out with
an introduction to Shake.
Shake has very rapidly established
itself as an industry-leading
compositing and 2D effects solution,
an invaluable tool in many
major post-production houses.
So what does Shake do?
It does things such as color correction,
filters, grain removal, blurs,
all kinds of filtering.
It ships with two of the
industry-leading color keyers,
Photron's Primat keyer,
and also the computer frame
store key light keyer.
It has tools for doing tracking, masking,
rotoscoping paint,
also retiming controls.
And for those that are interested,
there's a huge list of Shake's
capabilities up on the Apple website.
So how does Shake work?
A very brief introduction
to Shake is under the hood,
there is an advanced,
very efficient node-based
compositing engine.
The highlights of it is that
the primary processing within
Shake occurs within nodes,
and that nodes are connected and data
gets in and out of nodes through plugs.
And somebody who's using Shake will
actually create very complex
compositing trees and effects
trees by connecting nodes up.
I've got a simple example where you can
see there's a foreground and a background
layer being composited over each other,
and you can see the node representation
of this operation in Shake.
Something that's very important to
plug-in developers is who uses Shake?
Who's my audience going to
be when I build a plug-in?
Shake is used at a lot of the
top post-production facilities.
A list includes Weta,
the New Zealand-based company that's
doing the Lord of the Rings work.
Escape, based close by here in Alameda,
who's doing The Matrix.
Cineside, DreamWorks, Blue Sky.
It's pretty much the
A-list of post-production
houses and a lot of others.
To its credit,
it has been used in the production
pipeline for the last six
Academy Award-winning movies.
It's becoming more commonly
used in film schools.
With Apple's aggressive
pricing and positioning,
it's being used more and more for
commercial work and that sort of thing.
Who uses the Shake SDK?
In terms of third-party
commercial plug-in developers,
pretty much, you know,
we've got fairly strong industry support.
The Foundry uses or develops for
Shake with Tinder and also with
their Furnace plug-in suite.
Also, GenArts with their Sapphire
plug-in suite supports Shake,
and we've also got support from
Ultimat and Revision Effects'
warping and morphing tools.
Also,
another very big user of the Shake SDK is
actually the Shake customers,
the large post-production houses
that have to integrate Shake into
their production pipelines,
and also to create custom effects
within Shake to get the kind of
creative effects that they need.
So, you're a plug-in developer,
you're ready to start working with Shake.
What you'll need to do is actually
request the Shake SDK package
through Apple Developer Relations.
And when you get a hold of that package,
you'll see that it not only
supports the Mac platform,
but it also provides support
for the IRIX platform or
SGI platform as well as Linux.
One of the things that we've put a
lot of effort into over the last year
is really enhancing the Shake docs.
We've got great tutorials,
really good reference guides,
some white paper kind of things
to give you some technical
overviews of Shake's Node engine.
It also ships with 18 example
plug-ins for doing everything
from image processing filters,
custom overlays, custom widgets.
There's a lot of examples
to help you get started.
And we've got an example project
builder development environment.
The last point on this slide,
and this is something that is
both very powerful and it's
something that also requires a
little bit of a learning curve,
is that there isn't a layer
that Shake provides for its
plug-in development environment.
Basically,
when you start working with Shake,
you're using the same headers
and frameworks that the
Shake internal developers use.
And this means that you get the same
access to the Node engine that the
Shake internal development team has.
And that's a very cool thing.
It's a very powerful thing.
It means that you can do just about
anything with Shake that you want.
It also means that you need to spend
a little bit of time making yourself
familiar with some of the concepts
of how the Shake Node engine works.
And so what I'm going to do really
quickly in the final few slides is
just hit on some very basic concepts
involved with Shake plug-in development.
As we said earlier,
the building blocks or the
basics of the Node engine,
of Shake's Node engine, is just that.
We've got nodes and plugs.
And in review,
a node is where processing occurs.
And this is where you're going
to put your logic for image
processing or whatever you're doing.
It's going to be embedded in the node.
And the node is a C++ class.
And there's a base class defined
that has a lot of functionality
that you'll derive from.
And when you want to get data into
your node or data out of your node,
you're going to do that through a plug.
That's the way to get --
that's the way the data moves
through the Shake Node engine.
Once again, it's a C++ object.
One concept with plugs is that
they don't exist on their own.
They're always owned by a node.
And so that's something that
they'll -- within a node,
you'll add a plug that provides
a mechanism to get data
either in or out of your node.
And it has a base class as well that
provides a lot of functionality.
So what are the mechanics
of the Shake Node engine?
How do you actually produce
your result for Shake?
Well,
there's a concept called lazy evaluation.
Shake really only cares
about your output plugs,
what you can produce.
It's not going to ask you for any
information about your input plugs.
It's only ever going to,
when it comes time to
render and evaluate,
it's going to call your node and
it's going to ask for information
about your output plugs.
And so at that point,
once there's a request comes in for a
value out of one of your output plugs,
what you'll be doing then is pulling
information in from your input plugs,
whether it's input parameters
that users define or it could
be data actually coming in from
a node that you're connected to.
So you'll be pulling on a plug,
getting data out of it, processing it,
and placing that value in an output plug.
And then Shake then takes that
data and moves it down to the
next node or it might actually
take -- if it's image data,
it'll maybe even put
it up in a render view.
Let's take a look at the code structure
that supports this calling mechanism.
As I said before,
Shake plugin is basically a node.
It's a C++ class.
In this case I've got it deriving
from the NRI node base class and
there's three primary methods that
you will be working with extensively.
First of all, and even though it's
probably considered best,
not the best practice in C++,
but Shake plugins do a heck of
a lot in their constructors.
So essentially when your
constructor is called in Shake,
you're going to be adding all the plugs,
the input plugs that you need,
do any wiring that you
need inside of your node,
any setup that you need is going
to occur in your constructor.
So you'll end up doing
quite a bit of work there.
Another key routine is your eval routine.
This is where Shake calls for
the value of your output plugs.
So any output plugs that you've
registered that Shake wants a value for,
it's going to call that eval routine.
With a pointer to the output plug that
it's interested in getting a value for.
So you'll look at which output plug it's
asking for and do whatever you need to
do to compute an updated value for Shake.
And finally,
there's a virtual notify method.
You can actually register with
Shake to be called when one of your
input plugs is somehow modified.
And so Shake will call you and
you might want to do something,
either some kind of processing or
changing the structure of your node.
upon the notification that you get.
This is the final slide.
Something that's very important
for Shake plug-in developers,
I do quite a bit of Shake SDK support.
One of the things that we find is that
Shake provides quite a rich set of
base classes that you can start from.
We talked about the NRI node
base class a couple slides back,
but as a plug-in developer,
you will rarely start and derive
from that base class directly.
There's a number of base
classes depending upon the
operation that you want to do,
whether it's a filter that takes one,
two, or N number of input images,
whether you're a custom
widget or an overlay.
That's something that we really like
to emphasize with plug-in developers
is become acquainted with the base
classes that are provided by Shake.
You can save yourself
a huge amount of work.
There's a lot of functionality
built into those base classes.
That wraps up my presentation,
and at this point,
I'd like to introduce Donald Liu.
How are you doing?
Today I'll be showing an
overview of FXScript and a
couple of demos at the end.
So, what is FXScript?
FXScript is a video scripting
language used to create video
effects for Final Cut Pro.
[Transcript missing]
It's procedural language.
It's parsed and interpreted at runtime.
Since it's built-in,
it uses the same rendering
engine as Final Cut Pro.
There are over 150 effects
in Final Cut Pro which
are written in FXScript.
These are some of the features
available in FXScript.
Variable types.
You can declare multi-dimensional
arrays up to five levels:
built-in functions,
Standard Input Controls,
and Loops and Branches.
The subroutine supports
recursion up to 12 levels.
There are three types of
effects in Final Cut Pro that
you can create using FXScript.
Filters for single video streaming,
Transitions for two video streams.
And there's a generator,
which is a special type of clip,
such as text or particle generators.
Final Cut Pro has a built-in tool which
you can edit and preview your script.
There are three windows.
You can edit your script
in the text entry window.
You can run and see your
effect in the preview window.
And then you can adjust
your input controls.
You can edit your parameters
in your input control windows.
There are several ways of
saving your script in FXBuilder.
You can directly add your
effect to your project.
Or you can make a favorite effect,
which is saved in your preference file.
Or you can save it as a text file.
You can save as a plug-in or you
can save it as an encrypted plug-in.
Once you encrypt your script,
you cannot view the script again.
All the plug-ins,
all the effects in Final Cut Pro are
saved as text files,
so you can view them in an FX builder
or in any other text editor.
This is an example of FXScript.
There are two sections,
the header and the body.
In the header, you define the type and
the name of the effect.
You can also define the input parameters.
The main body starts
with the keyword "code."
So who is this for?
For Final Cut Pro developers,
post-Effect houses, and advanced users.
And now I'm ready to show you a demo.
Okay.
This is one of the filters I wrote.
Let me turn this up in here.
So this is a rock.
If I turn off this filter,
I can see an object in front of the car.
So I want to remove that object.
This filter removes that object.
And let's open that up in FX Builder.
So I'll be customizing this in just a
few minutes for this sequence right here.
So this sequence has a diagonal object.
And I'll be removing that object
by customizing this effect.
First of all,
I'll be adding an input parameter.
[Transcript missing]
The Rotate function: Polygon,
the Center Point, the amount of rotation,
and the aspect ratio.
Let's just run this to make
sure there's no syntax error.
So you can see right here,
there's a new angle control right here.
[Transcript missing]
Then, offset the timer.
And let's just adjust a
little bit the source.
Just get rid of the overlay.
Soften the edges.
There you go.
In my second demo,
I'll be showing how to make
a call to a built-in filter.
So this is a generator which
generates a random pattern.
Let's just open this in our FX Builder.
Let's just run this.
It's just random pattern.
And I like to make a function call to
one of the filters in Final Cut Pro.
Just stop this for a second.
[Transcript missing]
So I'll be making a quick call
to find edges to this pattern.
So I'm going to temporarily save
the image to a temporary buffer.
I'm going to make a call filter.
And the name of the filter,
which is find edges.
And then the source,
which I copied it to buffer.
And then the destination.
And then frame, duration, and frame rate.
So let's run that.
[Transcript missing]
And you don't have to even type or copy
and paste the script of the find edges.
This should eliminate such problem
as variable name collisions,
typos, and other problems.
And you can, once you make this change,
you can save as a plug-in,
but this time I'm going to make it
Where is it?
Make Fabric Effect, right here.
If you look in here,
it will save it as a favorite
effect and you can use it.
So let's close that.
And in my third demo,
I'll be showing performance
issues in FXBuilder.
Let's open this.
This is a particle generator.
Let's open this up.
Let's run this.
We have all these
parameters you can control:
gravity, initial velocity, speed, decay,
the size of the particles, softness,
you can change the color,
[Transcript missing]
If I add any more particles,
you will see degradation in performance.
[Transcript missing]
Now this is drawing 10 times 100,
over 1,000 particles.
This has same control,
some similar controls as the first one.
[Transcript missing]
Now, I've included Bezier curve to this,
so I can control the
path of the particles.
So with all the additional calculation,
you don't see any performance
difference between these two right here.
Okay, that concludes my
demonstration for FXScript.
And next, I'll be, I think,
Avi will be up here to show
you AfterEffects plug-ins.
Thank you.
So my name's Avi Chaplinsky,
I'm one of the engineers
on Final Cut Pro,
and I'm here to talk about
After Effects plugin support
inside Final Cut Pro.
So as a bit of an intro,
I'm just gonna cover some of the basics,
'cause some of you may be aware of this,
and some of you may not be.
So what is After Effects?
After Effects is Adobe's package for
2D and 3D compositing and effects
for video and motion graphics.
What are After Effects plugins?
After Effects plugins are usually
third-party developed modules
that add some functionality
to the host application.
These are typically things like effects,
titlers, keyers, time remappers,
but really there's a
wide variety out there.
Now, why does Final Cut Pro support
the After Effects plugin?
Well, it is a public SDK,
so it's available for everyone
to download and play with.
And, when Final Cut Pro came onto the
market and in the intervening time,
the After Effects plugin has sort of
developed into a de facto standard for,
well, cross-application plugins.
So it's actually supported by several
other applications besides After Effects.
From Adobe,
Premiere has support for them,
but also Combustion and Commotion also
have support for After Effects plugins.
So for people developing them,
and if they're interested,
if you're developing them
in a third-party setting,
your audience is a lot wider than any
one specific application standard,
because it's embraced by
several competing applications.
So in this brief presentation,
I'm just going to cover some of what's
of interest to us in Final Cut Pro.
So that is what works
inside Final Cut Pro,
any limitations,
and some Final Cut Pro specific
API that we've added in the
last release of Final Cut Pro.
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
so some limitations to our implementation
of the After Effects standard.
In Final Cut Pro, we don't allow plug-in
defined on-frame UI elements.
So if you require the user to
directly interact with the frame
in order to place elements or to
pick up various kinds of things,
then you can't do it directly
in the Final Cut Pro UI.
Typically, if this is the kind of
thing you need to do,
you'll want to do your own UI on top,
and you can pull the frame out and
draw whatever you want on top of it and
let the user interact in your own UI.
We support only 8-bit RGB rendering,
although Final Cut Pro 4 has a
brand-new 32-bit float rendering engine
for After Effects in Final Cut Pro.
The greater-than-8-bit format defined
in After Effects is 16-bit integer,
which is not something we have
native support for in Final Cut Pro.
Another key thing to keep in mind,
especially as you're working on your own,
as you make more elaborate plug-ins,
is we don't allow
dynamic parameter lists.
These typically are if the list of
parameters you have wants to depend
on the state of a pop-up or something,
then we can't allow
that in Final Cut Pro.
All the parameters that your effect
has need to be static and defined
when the effect is initially read in.
So basically,
Final Cut Pro doesn't really
have an analogous construct to
changing the number of parameters,
so we don't allow it.
for the After Effects plugins themselves.
All right, so a quick overview
of some new API calls.
So we added some that these are useful
if you're trying to better integrate
your plug-in into Final Cut Pro,
and they deal with some
of the differences between
After Effects and Final Cut Pro.
There's also a few that are particularly
useful if you have your own custom
UI that you're drawing and you want
to interact with the application,
and particularly if you'd like to
send frames out to the currently
enabled video out device.
So briefly, there are four new calls
in Final Cut Pro 4.
The first two are rather simple.
They simply allow you to retrieve
the current version number of the
Final Cut Pro you're running under.
So there's the major version number,
things like 3, 4,
and then the minor version
number for the dot releases.
The third one is just a call to cause
Final Cut Pro to redraw all of its UI.
This is good if you've drawn custom
UI on top that might have interfered
with or drawn on top of any of
it or otherwise damaged the UI.
When your plug-in is completed running,
you'll probably want to call this
function to just make sure the
UI is in a good state when the
user comes back into Final Cut Pro.
The last one is what's
of particular interest,
again, if you have custom UI.
So it allows you to...
force the viewer or canvas,
the window that the user
is seeing for the clip that
they've applied your effect to,
to move to a particular
frame inside the clip.
What this means is that if you've got
your own UI with maybe your own kind
of timeline and you want the user to
be able to scrub through the clip,
you can call back into
Final Cut Pro and have
Final Cut Pro move to that same frame.
And what that really gets you is not
only showing it in the Final Cut Pro UI,
but if there's a video
device turned on and enabled.
Final Cut Pro will want to do
the rendering for that new frame,
which, since it'll call you if
you're in the render stack,
that'll let you push your frame
with all your effects out to the
video out device directly without
having to worry about writing
your own interface to do all that.
So in order to support
those additional calls,
what we've done is added a single
function pointer that you call
that's in the PFUtil callback,
if anyone's familiar.
But that's basically a set of utility
callback function pointers that the host
application provides to every plug-in.
In this case, the host is Final Cut Pro.
If you call that function at
the bottom to get the private
callbacks with a block of memory,
then we'll fill in those
function pointers for you,
and then you can just call them directly
to do basically what I outlined before.
Okay, so quickly in summary,
the After Effects API is a very
useful way to add additional
image processing to Final Cut Pro.
This is particularly true for those
in the third-party setting because
since it's a standard API that's
supported by several other applications,
it's a good opportunity to sell to a
wider audience than just one application.
But of course,
keep in mind that we only support a
subset of the full After Effects API.
This subset is what we
felt was most important and
appropriate for Final Cut Pro,
and it's, yeah, what we felt was what you
would need to best interact.
But a good thing to keep in mind is that
we really would welcome your feedback.
If there's pieces of the
SDK that we don't support or
that might have been added since
we have done our last revision,
we'd be very interested to hear from
people on what they... what they'd be
looking for to give us an idea of what
the benefits might be because if it,
you know, if it looks good,
we'd like to add any support we can in
order to make your lives a little easier.
So we'd really encourage feedback,
not only now,
but later there'll be some email
addresses we'll post at the end
to give you a forum to provide
that kind of feedback to us.
Okay, well that is basically everything
I wanted to talk about,
so I'm going to welcome
David Black up to talk about
some future plug-in directions.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I'd like to spend a little bit of
time talking about sort of where
the future lies with plug-ins and
Apple's Pro Video Applications.
Plug-ins, we've seen,
are very important to us and sort of
want to take things to the next level
and only increase the opportunities
for developers going forward.
really what sort of our core direction
comes down to trying to move to a unified
plug-in model where it makes sense
for Apple's professional applications.
And it's important to note that this is
not something that's going to supplement
normal current operating system plug-in
models like the audio unit specification.
Really what it boils down to for us
is having a common base architecture
in place across different types of
plug-ins and different applications
so that it's only easier for us to
support them and you to develop them.
On top of that basic layer,
we have sort of function or tasks of
APIs depending on what you're doing.
So there might be sort of one set of
APIs for an effect plug-in or one set
of APIs for a data interchange plug-in.
And really, again,
sort of the key point of all
this is giving you a model
where you can know that multiple
applications will support this.
Certainly we're looking to commit to
support these across our applications
and also provide enough detail so
that others can support it as needed.
Also another key point is trying to
build the support in so that you'll
have the choice of developing a
model that's going to support you and
you'll have the choice of developing a
you'll have the choice of developing
a model that's going to support you.
tools to use for these plug-ins.
Certainly a lot of models in
the past have been very focused
on C or very focused on C++.
To as much of an extent as possible,
we really want to give you that
choice because certainly different
tasks may require different
tools and developers may be at
different technical skill levels.
It's going into a little bit more detail
about what we're trying to go for.
We're basing this model
on Objective-C protocols.
If you're familiar with
Objective-C protocols,
it's a very nice way to sort of pass data
messages between objects without being
forced to rely on a common base class.
And we found that actually
solved quite a few problems for
us in the implementation phase.
The files on disk just
stored as standard bundles.
Nothing really new there.
Bundles are actually great because
they put everything together,
even sort of defining
multiple plugins within one,
sort of to the user at least, object.
We will be supporting static and or
dynamic plugin loading and registration.
Your plugin may have requirements that
depend on what libraries are installed
or what application is running,
or it may be very simple and just can
simply document that in a structure.
And services and data from the host
application will be made available
via objects and callbacks so that
you'll be able to make those calls.
And it won't sort of be a simple one-way
model where image buffer comes in,
you do your thing, image buffer goes out,
but there is some
bidirectional communication,
support in there.
But you might ask,
what about other plug-in models?
How does this relate to everything we've
been doing and sort of new industry
standards that may be coming out?
Really, this is meant to be a
superset of a lot of things.
For us, it's very important to
support what makes sense,
but at the same time,
providing sort of native engineering
support for multiple plug-in models
at the core application level
is really kind of a lot of work.
By building sort of a
superset glue layer,
we hope to support more plug-in APIs,
not fewer,
and also leverage those efforts
across multiple applications.
And to this end,
it actually is designed to
support adapter or host plug-ins,
so that you can sort of
have that indirection of
you have a pro-application,
you'll have a pro-application plug-in,
and then an adapter layer that goes
off to some other vendor's code.
And we are certainly intending
to provide those adapters for the
most popular plug-ins and support
developers in providing more.
are.
So I might ask,
when will this be available?
We're going to begin to roll this out
later this year on top of Final Cut Pro.
The first sort of functional API we're
going to implement is a data interchange
model based around the XML data format
that we discussed earlier this week.
In brief,
we're essentially making the entire
contents of a Final Cut Pro project
available via XML to developers
in a very clean manner.
And this is really giving you a
programmatic interface to define commands
within the Final Cut Pro application
environment that receive this data,
perform necessary translations,
and do something useful with it.
We'll be releasing a public
beta of this in August.
That's our current intention.
If you watch the Final Cut Pro website,
details will be up there,
all so you can get in contact
with developer relations,
and they'll make sure you're in the loop.
And the intention is also to release
this in final form to developers
and users by the end of the year.
Earlier this week,
one of the demonstrations at the data
interchange session was AutomaticDuck,
providing AAF import and export
support for Final Cut Pro.
AAF being the advanced authoring format,
an industry-standard binary
container format intended to take
data between editing applications.
That plugin is currently sitting
on top of a very early version
of this plugin specification,
and it's basically a great proof
of concept for the whole idea.
So to sort of now summarize
the entire session here,
All of our applications
support plug-in models.
This is really very important to us.
Logic, Soundtrack, and also, excuse me,
Logic, Soundtrack support audio units.
Shake, of course,
supports Shake plug-ins.
And Final Cut Pro supports audio units,
AfterEffects,
and FXScript plug-ins at this time.
Of course, we're hoping to make
this list grow over time,
both with your help and with
new technologies internally.
And really, they're important,
and they're not only important
to Apple and important to you,
but they're really
important to end users.
Really, no one tool can do it all,
and providing plugins allows end
users to get the tools they want,
sort of unique tools that Apple may not
develop to be integrated into that space,
and it really gives the end users more
control over their product in the end.
And it also just helps
advance technology.
Certainly,
we're not going to think of everything,
and by at least opening that door,
it's available to put new technologies
and new workflows together just as
they come up in the marketplace.
And really,
we want more extensive support
for plugins in the future.
All the apps intend to
support more plugins.
We're also trying to move toward
modern plugin architectures.
As mentioned earlier,
this is not sort of a
replacement for existing models,
but just sort of open the
door wider to more models.
And we also really want to
be able to share plugins
across multiple applications.
We certainly have this today with audio.
We have a plugin unit
supported across Logic,
Soundtrack, and Final Cut Pro,
and this just adds more
value to sort of everyone,
and it's really important to us.
And we want to add sort of more
and different types of APIs.
Again, the data interchange
API is an example of this.
Certainly, it's very simple to provide
import and export functionality
with this plugin API,
but it's also there for sort
of integrated tools for data
management and workflow purposes.
And really,
I can't emphasize this enough,
that really input from you
is very important to us.
We've certainly done all our research.
We have our own ideas.
But we really need to know
from you what we're missing,
what we're not doing.
So please let us know what
sort of APIs you want,
what are the development
tools you prefer to work in?
Certainly,
Code Warrior and Project Builder,
now Xcode, are very popular.
But how much of a difference
would it make to be running from a
Java IDE or even from AppleScript?
And are there tools that you want
to do that you just don't know how
to fit in the current framework?
Certainly,
we might be able to suggest approaches
with current APIs or use that
feedback to then generate new APIs in
the future that are just going
to open up the platform even more.
At this point,
I'd like to invite up Brett Halley
to do the wrap up and do QA.
Thanks very much.
This week is kind of an
applications introduction to WWDC.
We've worked this week to have a
number of different sessions available
to you to show that we really like
to see developers get more involved
in our professional applications.
Be it with plug-ins,
be it cards and various
type of hardware devices,
be it content creation.
The plug-in session here today
is intended to be yet another way
that you can participate in our
applications and to provide new
products to our collective customers
and to make this a great platform.
If you have questions
about any of these things,
we strongly encourage you, one,
please send us feedback.
We do have a feedback box.
We have a feedback address,
fcpfeedback@apple.com.
And our industry evangelist
for professional development
and video is Jeff Lowe,
and he's the person for you to get
in touch with should you have more
questions or interest in discussing
opportunities in this space.